# Scripts

## Usage

In order to run these scripts directly from your CLI, such as this:
```
$ ./scripts/download-puzzle-input.ts
```

They need to have the proper permissions. You can set these by using `chmod`:
```
$ chmod +x ./scripts/download-puzzle-input.ts
```

After that, they will have the permission to be executable. The shebang found in the scripts will have them be run by Deno.

## Advent of Code Input Downloader

This script is used to download the puzzle input for a (given) day of [Advent of Code](https://adventofcode.com/).

### Prerequisites

- Deno
- Your Advent of Code session cookie

### Usage

1. Set the `AOC_COOKIE` environment variable to your Advent of Code session cookie:

```
$ export AOC_COOKIE=<your AOC cookie>
```

2. Run the script:

```
$ ./scripts/download-puzzle-input.js
```

This will download the puzzle input for today from Advent of Code and save it to a file called `input.txt` in the `day-<current-day>` directory.

There's several options

- Download a puzzle input for a specified day

```
$ ./scripts/download-puzzle-input.js 6
```

- Download a puzzle input for a specific day into a specified folder

```
$ ./scripts/download-puzzle-input.js 6 ./6_name-of-challenge/
```

### Get Advent of Code cookie

To find your Advent of Code session cookie:

1. Go to the [Advent of Code website](https://adventofcode.com/) and log in to your account.
2. Open your web browser's developer tools. In most browsers, you can do this by right-clicking on the page and selecting "Inspect" or "Inspect Element".
3. Switch to the "Application" or "Storage" tab in the developer tools.
4. Expand the "Cookies" section on the left-hand side.
5. Find the cookie with the name session and copy its value. This is your Advent of Code session cookie.

Alternatively, you can try the following:

1. Go to the [Advent of Code website](https://adventofcode.com/) and log in to your account.
2. Open your web browser's developer tools. In most browsers, you can do this by right-clicking on the page and selecting "Inspect" or "Inspect Element".
3. Switch to the "Network" tab in the developer tools.
4. Refresh the page to capture a new network request.
5. Find the network request for the Advent of Code website (it should be the first request in the list).
6. Click on the network request to view its details.
7. In the "Headers" section, look for the `cookie` field. The value of this field is your Advent of Code session cookie.


## Rename

@TODO

---

*This README.md and the scripts were generated by a large language model trained by OpenAI and known as ChatGPT. You can learn more about ChatGPT at https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/.*
